Its on
I saw that yellow dog, I think its Jerry's dog its a little bit of a thing.
No, I think that's Ben Lieder's.
Oh, Ben's dog maybe. I don't know. Anyway, it came through.
Cute little thing, isn't it.
Cute and came barking, you know, and she turned right around and she stood her ground. She never moved.
Was it a male or a female?
I didn't know that it was over.
Standing up here on the steps and Pat was looking at it and the poor little thing was so scared. And did you see it when you came?
No, I didn't. Hold on.
No little dog out there? Little tiny collar on it.
A little dog. Very tiny. I thought it was a cat at first.
What did you say about this candy?
Well Louise and Frank always bring a three pound box of these and their friends, they call it ambrosia. Food for the gods, you see. Ambrosia, you'll see. Food for the gods made in Milwaukee and um, so it was supposed to be divided between me and Carl. You see, because it comes in either
big slabs.
Yeah, big slabs. So they said, well now you eat it and I came off in a hurry, with Edgar, you know, he went down, I forgot all about it and um, I really didn't think any more about it. And now when I came down, you know, Carl says I can't eat chocolate. So, uh, I have taken them about half of one of the slabs that she had given to Pete.
You should use some.
Give them a taste, you know, and she said, now you just take the rest of this home. I said my goodness you haven't used up more. No, not a pound of it, not half a half a pound. And she said, well now you give Pendarvis a taste of it so they know and then you give Georgia a taste and then you keep the other half for yourself. I said Okay. If you're not gonna use it.
This was too much to give up.
No take it, and bake it. You can put it in with your English toffee, it breaks, you have to break it that way.
If you have any of that English toffee left its out there underneath those tablecloths. I forgot it was still there.
Is there some left?
Yeah, You want a piece?
No, no thank you. I just had a big piece of this.
[inaudible]
Bob says we can, they just set it on a coffee table.
Yeah,
And it picks up all the room.
That's what this woman did.
He, she um, she um, prepared things for the blind and she never held it. She put it right on the table and, and she just did what she had prepared. She had notes, you know, she just simply sat and read and then those things were sent.
It's a nuisance of this kind of microphone to hold it over for one person to speak and then hold it over for another. This one we can, if it works this way, just setting it on the table.
Well I think its as clear as anything.
We're recording now. I want to see what it does now with uh, all of us gathered around here. How far are you? You must be five, six feet away. Nobody's, nobody's raising their voices, Laura, you know?
I didn't know you were recording.
Okay. [inaudible]
Oh, mom,
I've even forgotten that fellow's name.
What fellows name?
My name?
No, she's talkin' about, that uh.
You know my name.
I don't know what his name is now.
the French man. That's the, uh, that makes the pottery.
Did I ask you who that was?
I think I've seen that picture before but I didn't
you didn't remember who it was?
No, I didn't.
That's the one that, um, Bertha Bauer told me to take good care of. I put it in that case.
Who'd she say was,
She didn't say,
Oh, she just thought the style of it.
Do you know who that is?
That's Mrs Hood.
Do you remember her?
Yes.
You do?
Um hmm.
That's, that's the, um,
That's really a picture of her.
That's the same picture. This picture here.
Yeah. That's a good picture of her, too.
Well, I wondered whether this might be Mrs. Hood at an older age.
Well, I think she's a stronger featured woman, this woman is. She looks, see how large her face is.
But her hair is parted the same way. This must be quite a young person. This picture of Mrs. Hood.
That's Mrs. Hood. I just remember seeing her and that dog.
That's a sweet little hat she's got on there. You notice all the little flowers.
Isn't that good.
Look at all the little flowers around the head. She looks there as though she was a,
I bet Bertha never saw her,
But George Masten says that he remembers Mrs. Hood.
oh, yes, he would.
I want to show them to George Masten sometime. And he said he remembered the house down there, the little uh, little frame house there where the filling station is, he said, he said it had a little picket fence around it. As a boy he used to remember that. But that.
They had a, um, a blacksmith shop there. Mastens did.
Right in Hood's back yard.
Yes, right there.
Well, this is the, this picture I had been looking for since, I don't know when and it was used, this is the Centennial booklet that was used.
That's the picture.
That was 1927 and this is 1958. So that's 31 years that that's been in hiding. And I, I really thought that the picture was lost. I had never been able to find a picture of Mrs. Hood.
Where did you find it?
Jeanette Terrell,
Oh!
Oh for gracious sakes.
She got it from Lizzie Terrell and Lizzie Terrell got it from old Mrs. Will Terrell, her mother. Evidently. Mrs.
Well you see Rablins were ah connected with the Terrells.
The Rablins. Was Mrs Will Terrell a Rablin? Was she Lizzie Rablin? No, not Lizzie. Um, what did Jeanette say her grandmother's name was? Let's see, Mark Terrill and Lizzie Terrell were brother and sister weren't they?
Yes, um hmm.
and Lizzie's mother and father were.
Rablins.
Was she a Rablin?
I think so.
And she married Will Terrell?
Um hmm.
Well it was Mrs Will Terrell that got that picture originally.
It isn't that, isn't that an excellent picture?
It's around here.
I, uh, I put it in this little case I had, I had some of these cases and I took the, uh, I took the other picture in here out.
They call those daguerreotypes.
Daguerreotypes, yeah.
Will has a picture of my father that they took, a daguerreotype.
Who took it? Do you remember?
Oh no, I.
Wouldn't be a Moffitt.
It was earlier than that.
Moffitt took one picture of governor Dodge that I have in 1858. That's exactly a hundred years ago. And he was a, I've got an old Mineral Point store directory and there's an ad in there, says that CP Moffitt, daguerreotype artist, and this was 1857 or 59. I've forgotten which, but I'd like know who that that person was. That's the one that, uh, as I said, Mrs. Bauer told me to, uh, to save.
I wonder if she knew who it was.
She said, Mark this Important, put it away. Don't leave it with the rest of them. But you never told me who it was, whether she, whether she knew. You think she would've said, wouldn't you, that if she'd have known who it was. Isn't that an excellent picture?
He lived at the foot of Rablin's Hill. I don't know whether it stands there or not. Or not.
Rablin's house opposite McSherry's you mean on the other side of the ravine?
Yeah on the other side of the road.
Well you know the only house that's there now is that house where ah Fred Branger lived, you know that rock house,
Well this is on the other hill.
You mean John Manley's house? Oh, or you mean the other way over toward the, uh, John C. H. Peter's over in that uh, east of McSherry's. Yes, I know where you mean. Well, there's only one or two houses over there. You know, Laura, where
Mmm Hmm. I know where you mean.
So Mrs Mrs Will Terrell was a Rablin
Mark Terrill's wife was a Rablin and Mrs Sam was a Rablin. They were sisters. They were sisters, Mark Terrell's wife and, and uh, and Mrs [inaudible] were sisters.
Well then who was, uh, Will, Will Rablin. Lavinia Rablin. There was a Lavinia Rablin.
Well that was Mrs James's name, Lavinia
Lavinia?
umm hmm.
Mr Gundry told me about, um, an old Mrs Rablin here in Mineral Point, whose husband worked in the mines. And when he would go to work, he would lower her in an old, down into an abandoned mineshaft and she'd sit there all day and knit and so forth. So that she wouldn't be bothered by the Indians. Can you imagine that? Imagine spending the day down in the bottom of a mine shaft, knitting, or sewing or something. Then they'd come back at night and hoist her up.
Well you see Dave's mother remembered the Indians going through here.
Oh, yes. I've heard her tell about the Indians.
Well, they were, they were friendly. They were begging, though, weren't they? Begging, always begging.
They had beaded work to sell, too.
But they always wanted flour, meat or, uh, all, always begging.
Mrs. Hood came from Georgia.
Mrs. Hood came from Georgia, Bob said.
She was a southerner. She looks sort of Indian there don't you Think? Sort of the high cheekbones. Did you know any of the Hood children?
Any of the what?
Any of the Hood children?
No. Did she have any children?
Yes. Yes.
I never knew her to have any.
Well, one of her daughters had this, uh, one of the, son Sam Hood that used to correspond with Johnny Francis. In fact, I have the letters that said.
Wasn't that her husband's name? Sam?
No, John. John. He died in 1844.
Her husband.
Her husband, Mrs Hood's husband, John Hood, died in 1844.
Well, I never remember anybody around there but her.
She must've been elderly.
I never remember any men.
or any, any children?
No, no children.
How old were you when you remember her? around there.
Well, when we moved down there I was about six years old.
I mean a child six wouldn't.
Well, you uh, do you remember her as being an old lady?
Just about like this.
You do.
Just about like you see her here.
Because that strikes me as rather a young looking picture.
Well, of course you can't tell what she might have put on.
They probably got all dressed up to have their pictures taken.
Sure, well that was just it.
Well, I've never come across any other pictures in all of the pictures I've seen.
I never saw another picture of inaudible.
I think that's quite a, quite a find to get that.
I think so, too.
Because otherwise it could be lost forever.
My, but she's a strong featured woman, this woman.
I'll have to show that to Mrs Bauer and ask her.
Where did that come from? Where did you pick this up?
I don't remember where I got it.
I thought maybe you might trace it.
I remember where I got it. But do you remember that afternoon that you and Harry were out there? There's a bar and I showed her that and she said get an envelope, put it in there, mark it important. And uh, I'll have to, to uh, show it to her and ask her if she knows who it is. Maybe George Masten might know, too.
Is he still living?
Ed Graber tells me that he'll go down to Darlington with me when, uh, I go down to visit with George. He likes to go down and see him and he says George is just in perfect health.
George Masten is in perfect health.
Oh, he lives in Darlington with somebody.
mmm hmm. I know.
I think he's what, 93 or 94 ?
He went to live with the people he lived with in Darlington when he first went there. So I've heard.
He has a birthday. Uh, his birthday's in February or March, so he's probably turning 93 or 94 this year. And he has an excellent memory, particularly about the tornado.
Is that right.
He remembers the tornado of 78 so well and of course so does Bertha Bauer. She was, she was telling me about it.
Well, I remember going around and seeing the ruins.
After, after the tornado.
Yeah. Afterwards, that's all.
Were are you in school? When it hit?
Yes, umm hmm.
Did they dismiss school?
Well, see, I'd have been eight years old. I was born in '70.
They did?
I've heard dad say they did.
Well, he remembers about it because he went and saw the homes. Their home was blown out into the street.
What do you remember about the tornado? Just seeing the buildings that were wrecked?
I remember the brewery more than anything.
yeah, there's some excellent pictures of, uh, of the Gilman's brewery after it was all demolished and the trees down
Everything out there was just demolished.
I've heard dad say that some old man.
That was Toay. Donnie Toay.
who was a character. Told him as he was coming out of the school house, that all his people had been killed in the tornado and he went home crying.
Well, I think he took him home.
Who was that? Tip Allen?
No, one of the Toays.
One of the Toays. When you said a character Laura, only character I could think of, you remember Tip Allen? Wasn't he a character.
Maybe that's who told dad that?
No, it was Toay.
I know, but I mean, I don't think he'd tell him that and take him home, you know? Do you,
Oh, I don't know.
I heard dad say it was some old funny fella. Some old character. Maybe the Toay took him home afterwards.
It was some Toay that wanted to adopt him.
To adopt Dad? They must have done a lot of that in those days.
Well he was quite a good looking youngster. David was a good looking kid.
But what was the matter with his parents?
They were kind of attached to each other.
this old man?
They probably used to say that to be nice to a kid.
Jim Toay, was it old Jim Toay? Johnny? Who lived where the Petersons lived years ago?
Well, let's see. Um, yes. Uh, Mary Holzmiller's grandfather wasn't, wasn't, was he a Toay? She was married Toay, wasn't she?
Mrs Holzmiller was Mary Toay?
Yes, but this was a relative, but it wasn't.
Was it a Hockings? It wasn't the Hockings? You remember Mrs Hocking lived there?
It was Mrs Hockings' father. What was Mrs. Hockings' name before she was married?
I can't help you out on that.
I can't think either.
Did I ever ask you and you know, one time when we were talking about the Klais pottery, whether you remember any children that Mr. Klais had?
No, there was never anybody around.
I thought there was a, I sort of have in the back of my mind that somebody by the name of Alice Klais, somebody other from Racine years ago came down to see the old house. This was, this was maybe at the time of the Centennial, maybe 30 years ago. And, nobody ever definitely contacted her to know where she lived or anything about it. So, that's the only clue that I have that Klais had any children. Well of course he must have had a wife. Did you ever, was she ever, did she ever help?
No, I never saw a woman around there. Just this man.
All by himself?
And he'd be outside working in the shed, you know, kind of a shed- like affair.
Was he all covered with clay and, and different [inaudible]
Well he'd mold it with his hands.
Spin the table, the wheel?
No, I never saw anything of that kind. He'd just mold it with his hands.
Well, he made the what did he make? Mostly flower pots or crocks, crockery ware?
Yeah. Crockery. Jars.
Well, did he have a horse in the yard that stirred up the clay to mix it up?
No, mm hmm.
Well, did you ever see where he, uh fired the, the things that he made? The furnace?
No. He was just molding it with his hands.
Mother was quite young. How old were you? You were only about six, weren't you?
I was probably five.
Well that's uh, that's, that's pretty young.
She wouldn't notice things like that.
You'd think there would be somebody around to help him, but he evidently he worked all by himself.
Mother said, you said that you used to go up there and sit and watch, just like a kid would, was interested in things like that.
Was he a nice man? I mean he didn't chase you away.
No.
Tell you get out of his way or
No. He was a short, stocky fella.
I wonder what nationality he was. Klais.
Nationality. What nationality.
I wouldn't know anything about that.
I don't suppose he was a Cornishman?
French? But isn't that a French name?
I don't even know how it was spelled.
I don't either.
I always.
It always seemed to me it was French.
I always imagined as being C L A C E but.
I always thought there was a Y in it.
somebody said, maybe you did, C L Y C E , but it's a name that's completely disappeared and I've never come.
Its a name that's not common at all.
I've never come across it any, any more other than that potter's name.
It seemed when he was gone everything there was gone with him.
Well, when would you go over? After school? Or on Saturdays or.
I wouldn't be going to school then I don't suppose,
No, I don't suppose they had kindergarten in those days.
No.
Well of course you lived right there nearby too.
Well it wouldn't be far.
Not too far. Who else lived over in that neighborhood? Do you remember the old government spring there? Just below Klaises house?
Well, let's see who, who lived by that spring?
Remember Lizzie Hoffman?
Aye.
Or the Cox's? Lizzie Hoffman lived up in, uh, in that house where the
I have the name of that woman that lived close to that spring and they called it by her name.
It would come to me if I didn't try.
Well, everybody in that neighborhood used to go there for water, didn't they?
Yes they did.
Where was that spring, Bob?
Why, Its still there.
Is it?
Yes, they've got it, it's a closed now and covered over.
And also many people used to go there to get their water.
It was the main supply of water.
Wasn't it the main supply of water?
Everybody got their drinking water there.
Well, apparently, they did.
and that was just below Klaises place there.
Yes, it was.
I wonder whether he got his water for his pottery and clay there.
Right at the foot of the hill. It was right at the foot.
Do you remember that old log and rock house back to the spring?
Well, there was a house there, a log house.
Yes. You don't remember who lived in it?
No, that's the name I'm trying to think of.
but was she a lady lived all by herself?
Yes, she was all by herself.
No, no children or,
Well, I tell you, she had a sis, she had a daughter that married one of the Goldsworthys here. Laura married, Laura Goldsworthy.
No. Laura wouldn't be Laura Goldsworthy.
no. What would the Goldsworthy's name be? Would it be Laura?
He lives here in town.
Oh. Was their daughter's name Laura, the woman that lived in the log house?
No, that was the mother. It wasn't, It wasn't a common name.
What Goldsworthy did the daughter marry?
Related to Tassy Ivey. She was a Goldsworthy
I didn't know she was a Goldsworthy.
Tassy Ivey? Mrs. Frank Ivey?
Yeah. Well her husband
Mrs. Frank Ivey was a Goldsworthy?
Her.
I thought she was a Toay.
Her father,
Was Tassie Toay.
Was it her father or grandfather was a Goldsworthy. Her mother was a Goldsworthy. That's right. Tassie's mother, was a Goldsworthy.
and Goldsworthy married a Toay
Goldsworthy married a Toay?
Yeah.
Yes, because Tassie was Tassie Toay.
And Tassie, Tassie Toay married Frank Ivey. Yeah. That's the way. Of course Goldsworthy is an old, old name around here. Well, where did you get your drinking water over at the hotel. Did you have a well there?
There used to be, down at Argall's brewery, there used to be a spring, too.
Yes. Would you have to carry water from there up to the hotel.
Well, yeah. I don't know they carried all of it, but they carried some.
That was quite a, that was quite a, that was quite a trip.
You'd probably have out rain barrels. This would be only drinking water you'd carry. But even then, can you imagine, all that drinking water.
Yes. That'd be, that'd be a lot I suppose.
What did you carry it in? Just an ordinary pail?
mm hmmm.
One in each hand? One pail in each hand?
Oh, I suppose.
Who used to do it? The children? Or did the whole family go?
Well Dad did a lot of it. I've heard mother say how early he used to get up in the morning to go to carry water.
Okay. When you were, um, a youngster, Mrs Jacka, did you ever go around and pick up float lead after it rained? You know, go around and pick up the little pieces of lead.
Yeah, I'd put it in a can and take it to the grocery store and sell 'em.
All the kids used to do that, didn't they?
Yeah.
Where, what store would you take it to?
Well, we'd take it to where Jeuck's are now.
Oh, that'd be old Mr Jeuck? Or that'd be before that. You remember,
Oh yes, before Jeuck.
You remember the old storekeeper's name?
Well, I think the name was Lanyon.
Lanyon. Well, I know that used to be a favorite way for kids to earn money after a rainstorm to walk around with a syrup pail and pick up these little chunks of lead.
It was a can, had it in a can
Yeah, that was a favorite way of earning money.
What would you do? Trade it in on candy right away?
Well, pretty quick.
Rock candy?
Mostly stick candy.
Oh, stick candy. Did you ever get rock candy? You know, that crystal rock candy with the string to it.
Like Metz used to sell that rock candy when we were kids growing up. I used to buy it.
and so did
It lasted a long time,
And so did, Will Bliss, always had rock candy.
If I got any money. I got a chunk of that. And of course it was so hard.
Yes. But it lasted.
It was nothing but just pure crystallized sugar.
Yeah. You used to go fishing and picnicking and picking flowers down below the zinc furnace, too. Didn't you? A lot you were growing up.
Picking flowers, I should say.
Do you remember the old zinc works down by the mile crossing? The old, the old Bellevue zinc works.
Would that be, Spensleys?
No, no, down the railroad track.
Oh, well we wouldn't go too far down there.
You know where the mile crossing is?
Mmm Hmmm.
down. The old, old Matthison and Hegler zinc works used to be down there.
Yeah, but we wouldn't go down, that far.
Didn't go that far.
mm mmm.
That's down where the bridge is. You know,
I don't, uh, uh, I've got a, uh, uh, a pencil drawing of the old Matthison and Hegler zinc works, but I've never found anyone that, that remembers anything about it.
Is there a date on it?
Yes, there is, but I can't, I can't remember exactly the, the date to quote it now.
It'd be over a hundred years ago now.
Well, could be Gilly Bennett would have probably known.
It's funny, I can remember about Klais don't you know? I can see that stocky little old fellow and that's all I do remember just seeing him molding it with his hands.
Well, I'd like to, uh, he must have made other things, different shaped pots and crocks for, uh, for keeping the preserves or lard or, or, uh, did he make flower pots, too? I imagine he did.
Well, they were, that red clay, you know.
Well don't you think that in order to get them round that he'd have a, a, a table that would revolve?
He had a form, don't you know.
then he shaped them, as they turned around, he shaped them with his hand is the thing spun on the table.
Well, maybe I didn't get to see him before that.
They generally have, they used to have a foot pedal, like a something like a sewing machine pedal that kept this geared to this revolving table and as it spun,
I thought of that name. Hitchens. Hitchens' Spring.
Hitchens' Spring. Well I've heard the name of Hitchens. Mrs Hitchen lived there in that old house, then.
That was Hitchens' Spring.
I'll have to bring up uh, an old photograph album that I've got that's got a picture of that house in it maybe that'd uh, remind you of what it was when you were a girl there.
and that water was just as clear as could be
Good water?
Mmm hmmm.
Well lets see, if you were five or six years old, that would be what?
I suppose maybe that was what took me up to Klais's, was getting water from Hitchens' Spring.
'78, '79.
'Cause you'd have to go kind of down around there to get it.
Do you remember anybody that lived in that little red brick house there where Jimmy Mitchell used to live? It was torn down some years ago. The Grays used to live in there. Jack?
No, I don't remember any name.
And then there was a double row, two rock houses together.
There were some German women.
German women. Did you know that Mrs,.uh, Ingles that, uh, lived, that old lady that lived with Mrs. Henry Kaufman? She lived over there in uh, in that house next to Klais's, we know Charlie Noble's house, she lived the house this side. She was quite an elderly lady. I think she came out here from Chicago.
They were a couple of German women. They used to go out washing.
The only people I remember going out washing was Minnie Cridge.
Yeah. Well that was later,
And n****r. Maryanne,
What was her.
Miller, Maryann Miller.
Mary Ann Miller. They said she used to sit there by her little, uh, in her doorway over in her little cabin there and sing. Do you ever hear her sing?
Mmm hmmm.
see, did she, what did she have? A guitar or a banjo or something?
no, she never played an instrument.
Just just sang by herself?
mmm hmmm.
What would she sing? A color or a ?
Colored songs.
Colored songs? Uh, uh, what are they called?
Negro spirituals?
A spiritual sort of thing. Did she have a nice voice?
Well, it was a colored voice.
Yeah.
Did you ever, did you see much of Marianne?
Well, when I knew her, most of her, she was out working.
You don't ever remember her growing up here?
Up at Aunt Sally's is mostly what I remember.
All right. Did she grow up here?
What?
Did she grow up here? Mary Ann.
I don't know.
I don't either.
Oh, you don't? I have a faint recollection of her don't you?
Oh yes, I remember her.
And I can't remember Fanny Toby.
You see, I probably remember her because my coming to school and she would come from that way and I very often met her. Don't you remember Fanny Toby?
Do you remember? You remember Fanny Toby, Mrs Jacka.
Mmm hmm.
Uh, and then was there a colored family in town here by the name of Wasley?
Was that the name?
Was there a Dave Wasley? Colored?
I can't recall the name myself.
Wasley, Wasley and then a.
Dodge Toby Dodge,
Dodge, Dodge.
They must have been, uh, uh, well you can call them slaves. They took Governor Dodge's name.
Must have been.
He came up here with ah with the colored people from the South when he came here.
mmm hmmm
Effie, well, uh, Effie Early you're thinking about.
Well, no, but she is another one.
Yeah, Effie Early, too. Lets see, what were the Negro families here in town. There's the Dodges and the Tobys, and um, and n****r Mary Ann Miller.
And the Earlys.
And the Earlys. And I thought there was a Wasley.
I don't know about them.
I thought there was a Wasley. But they were the only ones that I've ever known about it.
It's too bad we don't know who this lady is. Well, you don't have any idea, where you picked this picture up?
I don't have any idea. I don't have any.
I betcha Bertha didn't know who that was. She was just talking to you about the frame.
No, I put it in that frame.
Oh.
We were looking at a group of pictures out there that day that it was with, I wonder,
well,
I mean it was in a big box that you brought out.
I should remember and should mark down where I get those things, now how I happen to come by that picture, I don't know. I don't know whether it was, lets see, would that have.
We looked at pictures from Wheatons out there, that day.
Yes. Yes. I don't know if that would have come from Amy Masten's or not.
And we looked at pictures from Amy Masten, too.
But then of course I've had so many other sources of, uh, of pictures.
But I thought this was with one of the boxes of pictures that you brought out to us when we were.
You remember the Lutie family?
Who?
The Lutie family.
Oh, yes. He was sexton at the school.
There were quite a few girls weren't there?
Well, there was one that went with Charlie Grange.
I was always under the impression that two of the Lutie girls went out to Hawaii and,
Well, they went west.
or sort of a salvation army or, or some kind of missionary work. I've got a picture, I think of a, of boy, I don't know. There was four girls and maybe their mother and I've always understood that that was the Lutie family.
Tommy Lutie.
Where did they live?
Well, they lived about right in there where they built the high school, in there some place.
The present high school? Or the ah or the ah grade school?
The present high school.
The present high school. Tommy Lutie.
Did they have a large family?
Oh, I don't think so.
What did he do? Work at the zinc furnace too, then?
No. You said, what did you say Mrs Jacka? He was.
He was, he was.
Oh, sexton.
Sexton at the school.
As we'd say now,
He used to ring the bell.
janitor.
When you went to school was he the sexton?
Mmm hmmm. When I was in the high school.
Oh, is that right? What was that? You used to have some saying that they used to say about him? Something about good morning, Mr Lutie, or some little poem. You remember that?
He was an awful kind old chap.
That's true. I remember you told me that.
Maybe.
Some kind of a little poem you had.
To greet him?
Something like that. You know, just like kids. You don't remember it, huh? ,
Well, they, uh, the Pesch family lived, uh, uh, across from the telephone office in that, in that well did she, uh, did Mrs. Bauer live there for, uh, uh, some number of years?
Yeah, when she went to school.
Her father, uh, boarded her out there and she lived and stayed there. I wonder, what was she, about 18, when she left Mineral Point?
That's what she said.
18 years old. She went away to school. Well, she, she speaks of course, of the Jeucks and the Pesches.
The Jeucks lived where Clint lives.
Do you remember any of the, uh, uh, Mathison or the Hegler family that used to live there where Clint lives?
No, you see we didn't
One of the, uh, one of the, uh, uh, Mathison girls. Well, now, how do I get, Fannie Gilman's name comes to me in connection with, uh, one of the Mathison girls. I wonder if,
well, Fannie GIlman married a, one of those boys.
A Mathison or a Hegler? They were the ones,
A Mathison, I think.
They were the ones that had this old Bellevue zinc works that I mentioned a whole back.
Oh.
And they lived where, you mentioned Clinton there and made me think that that's where the Mathison's lived. There's a fireplace in each end of this Uh,
you know the fireplaces down there.
One at each end of this long room and uh, uh, someone told me that they used to have a glass, two glass chandeliers for candles hung in the, in the center of this great big, what was it, a ballroom.
The library used to be there when they first had it. The public library.
Upstairs there?
No downstairs. Yeah,
Downstairs. The old, the old early library.
The first they had.
Who was the, uh, who was the librarian then?
I think Mrs. Chase.
Mrs. March Chase.
Mm hmm. That's why they said the books were all so dirty.
Dirty? Oh dear.
Why were they all so dirty?
Because she was always so dirty.
Mrs. Chase?
Oh, kind of.
I wouldn't, you wouldn't think.
No.
No you wouldn't think it.
Did I tell you that I saw Katherine Chase last year in Chicago?
No.
She lives in Hammond, Indiana and she was, uh, she happened to be up to Chicago, so I had a chance to visit with her. She hasn't been back here in years. Do you remember her?
Yeah.
Kate Chase. She married some, I think his name was Sam Higgins?
No, I wouldn't remember.
Well, I wouldn't either. I of course don't even remember Reverend and Mrs. Chase.
Did Edgar come?
Yah, um hmm. Did Edgar come, she said.
This recording up to this point was um, done with Mrs Dave Jacka who was Agnes Chamley, and her daughter, Laura Jacka Nohr. Laura, how old is your mother?
Mother is 88. She was 88 the 19th of January.
This is just to confirm some of the dates and statements that she made and to give a time setting on some of the recollections.
Ah there's a correction. I want to make. Lizzie Terill and young Mark Terrell's mother was a Rablin. In other words, old Mrs. Mark Terrell Sr was a Rablin. I'm mistaken when I mentioned it being Mrs Will Terrill.
Aunt Etta, your birthday is when? Wednesday? How old are you going to be?
89.
Pretty near 90.
Pretty near 90. When did you start teaching school?
Oh, dear, I don't know.
Do you remember what year?
Oh, are you, you're not going to write that part?
Well, can't you tell me?
Uh, I graduated in '86.
In '86?
Uh huh.
And you started started teaching the next year. Then when did you finish? When did you quit teaching?
'57.
No, '37 probably.
You finished in '86 and when did you quit teaching then?
Oh, I can't think of. No, '37 '37.
1937. Did you ever teach? Um, a first grade?
Oh yes, I supervised.
Howard Weisen said he thought you taught first grade? with Miss Jacka. Miss Jacka taught second grade.
Well, we taught together, but um, I should , well, we both teach
Which Miss Jacka was that?
Laura. You don't know her, I guess.
That was in the fourth ward school, but when you started teaching, did you teach first grade or second grade?
Taught first.
I guess.
Then when did you switch over to second?
Well, I don't know, we worked together, you know. They would pass from room to room.
Did you ever teach in country school? You teach out in country school first? Before you came in town. Who's that?
I can't see it. Can't see it at all.
Who is that then?
That's grandfather. Grandfather Rogers.
Grandfather Rogers.
I gave that to your dad.
That's your mother's father.
Um hmm. Didn't you know who it was?
I didn't know who it was.
Awww.
Is that Clark? Is it somebody who was in business with Grandpa Neal?
I can't see that one.
What time did you leave Milwaukee? Half past nine? You did. Did you come right straight out. You did? What time did they get here, Carol?
About eleven o'clock.
Do you have a nice ride out, Debbie?
Uh huh.
Who drove?
My father.
He did? Does your mother drive a car?
Yes.
She does. She didn't drive today.
No.
How come?
It was too busy on the road.
Was there lots of traffic on the road. How did Johnny like the ride?
Oh, fine.
Carol, did you get your camera to work?
Yes.
Did you get it fixed? What was the matter with it?
Nothing. We just had to put a film in it.
Toay. This is Toay.
What was his first name?
Grandfather?
Yeah. John? Richard?
Dick.
Well, it must be Richard Rogers then.
Maybe it was.
And what was your, what was your grandmother's name?
I don't know.
Do you know dad?
Before my time.
Well, I thought you probably would have heard them say.
Some family isn't it, when you can't find out anything. Was looking in the paper the other day and there was a picture in there of a bunch of people of the name of Neal I had never heard of. There seems to be more Neals in Milwaukee now than there ever have been. A lot of them are black, Negros.
Mother had one brother. He went out to the gold rush, to California.
And Ann. His oldest girl was Ann.
Benjamin. Wasn't that his name?
Yes.
Grandma's, your Aunt Jane.
Yes, that was Will Les' mother
Will Les' mother. And Aunt Ann. Who were Aunt Ann's children?
Well, there were a lot of them out there. Aunt Ann
She was first married to Markham?
Yes.
And Charlie Markham was the only child?
I think so.
What about Lucy Strong? She was a Markham.
They were some relation.
Then what about, there was a Susan? What was her name?
Press.
Where did they live?
Savannah.
Any other sisters.
Yes, Alice.
Where was she? Who was she? Did she marry? What her name?
She married your grandfather Neal and then she died.
And then Grandpa Neal married her sister, Mary, your mother.
I guess so. I don't know.
And then just one brother. Benjamin. He's the one that went to California at the time of the gold rush. Did you ever hear from him after he left?
No.
I thought Dad said they had one letter?
No, I don't think. I don't know.
They had one letter from him.
That's what I was given to understand.
did you say Aunt Etta? They had one letter.
No.
Never heard from him after he went out West?
Well I heard, somebody told me, they had one letter and that was the end. They never.
What year did he go out there?
The gold rush.
'40s.
'48 I guess it was.
Somewhere around there.